Create a dictionary of 3 fruits and their colors. Print it.

Create a dictionary of 3 countries and their capitals. Print only the capitals.

Add a new country-capital pair to the dictionary.

Update the capital of an existing country.

Delete one country from the dictionary.

Print only the keys of a dictionary.

Print only the values of a dictionary.

Check if "India" is present as a key in your dictionary.

Create a dictionary of your 3 friends and their ages. Print the age of one friend.

Create an empty dictionary and add 3 key-value pairs one by one.

Write a program to count how many times each letter appears in the word "banana".

Store 5 students’ names and their marks in a dictionary. Print the student who scored the highest marks.

Merge two dictionaries
d1 = {"a": 1, "b": 2}
d2 = {"c": 3, "d": 4}


Write a program to check if a dictionary is empty or not.

Given a dictionary:
numbers = {1: "One", 2: "Two", 3: "Three"}
Print the word for number 2.

 Write a program to create a dictionary of squares (keys 1 to 5, values = squares).
 Write a program to get the sum of all values in a dictionary.
 Write a program to find the key with the maximum value in a dictionary.
 Write a program to swap keys and values in a dictionary.
 Write a program to check if two dictionaries are equal or not.

Part C – Nested & Practical (Q21–30)

Create a nested dictionary of 3 employees with their name, age, and department. Print one employee’s department.

Create a dictionary library with book titles as keys and authors as values. Print all book titles.

Store your family members and their favorite food in a dictionary. Print the favorite food of your mom.

Write a program to count the frequency of each word in a sentence.

Given a student dictionary with marks, calculate the average marks.

Create a dictionary of 3 states and their cities (list of cities as values). Print all cities of one state.

Create a dictionary of 3 movies and their release years. Print movies released after 2010.

Write a program to remove all duplicate values from a dictionary.

Create a dictionary of fruits and prices. Print all fruits costing more than 50.

Create a dictionary of rooms and treasures. Let the user choose a room and print the treasure.

Build a dictionary of countries and capitals. Ask the user to type a country and print its capital.

Create a quiz dictionary with 3 questions and answers. Ask user to answer and give score.

Store student roll numbers and names. Ask the user to enter a roll number → print the name.

Create a dictionary of English words and their Hindi meanings. Ask the user to translate a word.

Treasure Hunt: Store treasures in dictionary keys (Red Room, Blue Room, etc.). Let user guess the correct room.

Create a dictionary of usernames and passwords. Ask user to login by checking dictionary.

Store 5 products and prices. Ask the user to enter product names → print total bill.

Store cricket players and their scores. Ask the user to guess who scored the highest.

Store suspects (name, place, item). Write code to find who is the thief (like detective puzzle).